So let's make some changes,
no more crazy timers.
We just have so
many of them, potentially 120,000 a second
out of 1,000 concurrent games running.
Let's try to make something
that's a little bit more clever.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna pull
out the timer, and we're gonna make it
only return numbers, which will be the
next time in which you need to wake up.
The next step is that we should
create a map of expiry call backs.
At this point, these call backs need to be
called, and so that way we don't have to
go to the process event loop
unless if we want to go there,
and we're gonna make this pretty tight.
Next, we're gonna have to update
the game loop function so
that it's no longer an async loop,
but that delicious callback recursion.
Everyone loves callback hell.
And then hopefully at the end,
we'll have some profit,
less memory, hopefully less CPU.
Added the word lisp in there cuz
I just had a lot of parentheses,
felt right at the time.
So let's do that right now.
This one's gonna be a pretty fun change
because it's a very different change.
Now, notice that what I
didn't do is try to improve.
Everything that I just suggested wasn't
trying to just kind of change this.
We're really rethinking the problem,
like how can we create something that's
completely different or radical?
How can we change 120,000 promises
created, say, down to just 60 or
maybe less than 60, maybe 30 per second,
just some very small number amount.
So what I'm gonna do is first I'm
gonna highlight this ticker and
I'm gonna delete it.
And I'm gonna create
a file called ticker.ts.
I'll paste that in there and
we're gonna export this thing.
All right, awesome.
I'll make sure that we
have everything assigned.
And so we kinda need to thin this out.
We don't need nearly as
much information in here.
We don't need to do the async thing.
And like all problems
you're going to encounter,
what I'm doing exactly right here will
probably not be applicable to you.
But the fact that we looked at memory,
saw that this was
a good portion of our memory, we looked at
the CPU, we saw this was a good portion.
This is likely going to be a significantly
larger win, cuz we have two dimensions
in which we're making the program more
efficient, not just a singular dimension.
So all right, I'm gonna go down here,
and we don't need the remaining.
We don't need the promise, resolve.
We don't need the end now.
We don't need the extras.
Let's just do that or erase that.
And we're just going
to return flooredNext.
So that's when we're
close to execute next.
So every time this thing is called, we
return our next value we should go to, and
then increment our next to the next point.
Next time it calls, it does it again.
So every single time we do this,
it should just be a nice consistent timer.
Notice that there's no more async.
I'm gonna remove async from that function.
It's now just a very simple function
that's just returning numbers.
Now, we could test this.
But this is a class about performance,
so ain't nobody gonna test this, okay?
We're gonna do this the old-fashioned way,
which is not test it and
just hope everything goes well.
I'm getting we have an integration test.
We should know if this thing fails.
No TDD is going on here, so
now I'm gonna do something which
everybody is gonna be super happy about.
We're gonna create a class.
Everyone loves classes, don't you?
And in this class,
remember what we're gonna do.
We're gonna do a map of some time in
the future to a list of callbacks, cuz
we could have several games at the exact
same millisecond that need to be woken up.
Look at how beautiful this timer is,
and it's also completely worthless?
So we're gonna go private,
callbacks will be a map.
Let's define a callback type, callback
will just be a standard callback, right?
So I'll have a number, the time in
the future when it should happen, and
a callback, right?
For whatever reason, I don't like creating
stuff right there, it just bothers me,
I like to create it in the constructor,
I don't know why.
Then we're gonna have a private last
update time, which will be a number.
And then we'll have a nice
little constructor here, and
it will have this.cbs equals a new map,
and
this.lastUpdateTime does not equal 0 but
equals date.now.
So this is the last time
that these things happened.
Okay, good.
So let's create an add function.
We need to be able to
add to these callbacks.
And because our goal, again,
is to go from 120,000 potential promises
down to somewhere less than 60.
That's our goal.
All right, so I'm gonna go add, and
it's gonna take in a callback rate,
that's not the right number,
we're gonna go like this, when.
When in the future do
you need to be called?
And that's what this whole ticker is, is
that it sets some time in the future for
you to be called.
Okay, fantastic!
And let's do this, we're gonna go
this.cbs.set when callback, right?
I'm kidding, we can't do that.
We've gotta do this whole like, all right,
callback equals this.cbs get this,
if not cbs,
then we need to go cbs equals an array.
And then go up here and forget to do that
whole thing because I forget things,
and then do this whole cbs.set when
this thing, and then cbs.push callback.
All right, there we go, we got a nice
little callback adding, right?
So every place we're gonna have
a bunch of callbacks that potentially
could be added at this number.
Fantastic, we're looking, feeling good.
Okay, next, we just have to return out.
We have to return out nothing.
Okay, fantastic!
Now we need something that
runs the actual time.
This is where we're gonna
do the actual loop,
where we're trying to aggressively reduce
the amount of promises or memory created.
Should be pretty easy here.
So the first thing I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna go like this.
Let's do a const start = date.now().
We need to know when we started cuz
there's gonna be an important point.
Because remember, what are we doing here?
We're controlling when the process
event loop takes control again.
So we need to be judicious
about how we do it.
We can't just infinitely
spin processing things,
because you can imagine that it could get
really bad where we could end up spending
30 milliseconds,
40 milliseconds doing something.
So we got to be a bit more judicious here.
So I'm gonna go like this,
while this.LastUpdate is less than start,
so we're gonna only process
the things up until this point.
If date.now minus start is greater than
two milliseconds, let's just break.
Let's get out of here.
So we'll only process up to two
milliseconds worth of data and
that is that.
So however many updates we can do,
fantastic.
So we're gonna grab the last
callbacks at this time.
And then we're gonna go for, let's go like
this, if callbacks, if there's a callback
at this time, we're gonna do a little
nice little callback right there.
Look at how great that is, thanks Copilot.
After that, we need to go
this.callbacks.delete last time,
and then we're gonna increment
last time by one value.
So all we're doing is we're literally
walking per millisecond and
executing all the callbacks synchronously.
No more hooks,
no more a bunch of other things happening,
no more going to the process event loop,
no more anything.
It's just in JavaScript
constantly running.
And then after that, we just need to
be able to call ourselves again and
run sometime in the future.
So we can do something like setTmeout,
this.run, and
we'll do it pretty much
as soon as possible.
What this is gonna allow,
is that any data coming in from web
sockets will be able to be processed.
We're letting somebody else run for
a moment and then we're gonna go back and
try to keep processing data.
So pretty straightforward
stuff right here.
But this is where my intensity comes in.
I just hate the fact that when I look at
this, I'm creating this little function
right here every time just
to call this function.
Because we're already trying to be so
efficient, so
I wanna just put this on the shelf and
make it maximally efficient.
So I'm gonna go this, private boundRun,
which is going to be that,
and I'm just gonna go this.boundrun
equals this.runbind this, right?
And so then I can just do this
beauty right here, this.boundrun, 0.
There we go.
Look at that,
doesn't that just feel better?
I just feel more emotionally less in pain.
I just love making things as
efficient as possible, and so
I feel very happy about this.
We have effectively removed a bunch of
memory being created, a bunch of promises.
It looks pretty good, but
now how do we start this?
How do we return this?
Hell, this is where
the fun is gonna get here.
This is where people are gonna
really love me after this.
I'm gonna just do a quick export function,
getTimer.
Whoa, did you see that,
it said getTicker too?
That is beautiful.
So I'm gonna have a singleton,
but we still have to call run.
So what I will do instead is I'll
do a nice little static function.
Isn't this just beautiful?
Create const timer = new Timer(),
timer run, return timer.
There we go.
It's a singular item,
little state container runs by itself.
I could have done this all
that module level stuff.
But if at some point I
wanted to test this,
it'd be nice to be able to kind of
export all these things, expose it and
be able to run and actually test
that we're doing what I want to do.
And I also just love creating classes
to trigger a JavaScript people.
I think it's just tons of fun.
So there we go.
Great times, great times.
So I think this will all
just work first try.
I assume I'm smart enough
to be able to do that.
And so now all we have to do
is go back to our game and
we need to make these updates.
So, this is not really available anymore,
so I'll import this in.
Now remember,
this just gives us the next time to run.
It doesn't give us
anything other than that.
So that means this needs to change.
We can no longer use the Lord's loop,
a do while loop,
we need to use something
a little bit different.
So I'm gonna have a function and
we're gonna to call it run.
And that's all we're gonna use.
And I'm gonna also have let
lastRunTime = date.now().
So that way I can kind of keep track
of how long it took me to run now.
So I'm gonna move this
logic somewhere else.
All right, so
that means ticks no longer equals this.
Ticks = date.now minus lastRunTime.
So that's how long it took for
us to call this thing.
So there we go,
kind of makes sense, right?
We're kind of walking through this.
So all this stuff, still the same,
still the same except for right here.
We can no longer do the while loop.
So I have to move this
into an if statement.
And the best part is I get it, what is it?
Modus ponens?
Is that what we need to apply here?
I always forget my logic name.
I need to convert all
the ampersands into that and
then convert all the bangs into that.
So there we go.
So if the game has ended, or a socket's
been closed, or a socket has been errored,
we need to do something different.
So I'll call finish.
Else, we need to call run, but
we don't wanna just call run directly.
We wanna go getTimer(), add, we're gonna
add ourself, at the game ticker, next tip.
So there we go.
Add us into the future.
Let us run at some point.
We'll be very happy about this, fantastic.
So there we go.
That looks pretty good.
All right, fantastic.
Now we have this whole problem down here,
which is just now what we want to do,
right?
This is kind of problematic because
this will just run right away.
So that's why I created this
little finish function, so
I can go function finish, there we go.
And do that.
That kind of made goofiness, so
I'll just go, why is that doing that?
Why is that doing it?
Trust me, Vim is super cool!
All right, there we go.
Now we have this little finish function
that's gonna do all the same finishing we
did before.
If we stop with one or two,
we'll stop it, else we'll send, hey,
opponent disconnected, or
we're gonna do this right here.
We're gonna send out the messages like,
hey, the game stopped, everyone's done.
And then we're gonna
keep track of everything.
So therefore we're now kind of keeping
track of everything that has happened.
There's one more small tiny, teeny,
tiny problem that I don't know if
anyone's really thought about,
which is going to be the classic issue,
which is inside of our ticker.
We do everything right except for
one thing.
What happen if we run into the future and
it's taken too long to process everything,
and then one of our timers tries to
call this function in the past, right?
Because our ticker only
adds 16 milliseconds,
which is probably not that great.
So we kinda have to do something either
inside of here or inside of here.
Now, I would probably recommend,
let's just fix it in the ticker.
If we run so
fast that we're now into the past,
we're gonna just move ourselves forward
and cause a starter, cause a larger tick.
Does that sound fine?
It's probably the best way to do,
which means our update function
will get called multiple times.
I think that's probably fine.
And so we're gonna go math.max,
which is giving me now plus 1 or
flooredNext.
All right, which we could do that one,
which maybe that would be good, but
then of course we haven't
done this thing right here.
So we do need to update this
a little bit more properly.
So we're gonna do a little bit of this.
We're gonna go,
if now is greater than flooredNext,
then we're gonna go
flooredNext equals now plus 1.
So we'll put it slightly into the future.
Hey, you're gonna happen
one moment into the future.
And then we'll do next equals flooredNext
plus rate, so that's our next time.
And our previous now remain the same.
Else, we'll just do this.
And now we can just redo
the whole flooredNext.
All right, does that look good?
By the way, during this presentation,
I only realized that this was a bug during
all the times I was
doing things right now.
And so this was kind of a live
coding update that may or
may not be 100% well thought through,
but this should just work.
Hashtag that out if anyone's wondering.
All right, fantastic, looks good to me.
Looks good to me too,
I just wanna double check this.
If now is greater than flooredNext,
then obviously we need to move it forward.
We need to move forward next by that,
else we do this.
Previous now equals now.
Perfect, okay, I think that's correct.
I think we're looking good on that one.
You should never admit your downfalls, by
the way, publicly, but I'm okay with it.
It's a shameful moment for
me to actually have this happen.
So what I'm gonna do is,
I think everything is working, so
I'll just do a quick tsc to make sure,
okay, all my types are working.
We're probably pretty close here.
So let's do a quick run test.
Obviously, the first four
tests should just work.
I would be very surprised if the first
four tests broke because they're only
involving the game and
making sure the bullets and
everything are shooting correctly.
If you're ever wondering,
if you're using this program and
you're trying to implement this test
yourself, and you're wondering,
is integration doing anything,
you can always tail test log.
And so
notice that we're not doing anything.
So my guess is that we actually
broke something right here.
It's not running.
We're not doing something.
So what the heck has happened?
No, this is always the worst possible
answers when things break live.
This is the one I was
hoping wouldn't break live.
So what did we do wrong here?
So sorry,
we got to do a quick moment of debugging.
Let's make sure everything looks good.
When is into the future.
Start is right there, fantastic.
Well, last update is less than start.
Okay, fantastic, given now minus start
is greater than 2, then we do that.
We get the last one of those,
we do a little four const.
I know live demo.
Of course live demo, we delete any of
the previous time, we do this, and
then we rerun it again.
Okay, so I mean,
I feel like this all looks pretty good.
Let's go back to our game just to make
sure that our game is actually doing what
it's supposed to be doing.
Of course, I am so stupid.
Are we running?
No, we didn't run, we didn't run.
We didn't even run the thing.
So here, we've got to make
sure we start the game loop.
All right, man, I'm a genius.
All right, so we rerun this thing.
We jump over here.
Is the thing actually gonna start running?
There we go.
We saw some things run.
Nice!
All right, so what went wrong here?
Luckily I prepared for this one.
I actually made this mistake earlier.
So we didn't update last run time.
Just lucky moves going on right now.
There we go.
Just in case,
I know it's happening, there we go.
Now we're actually properly
calculating the game loop out.
Okay, fantastic!
These kind of changes can
be quite difficult to make.
But we've made them.
We're feeling successful right now.
And so, let's do this one.
We're gonna kill this,
we're gonna do this.
Remember, my server sometimes leaks.
My integration test sometimes leaks out
zombie processes, just part of life,
just as just a little
thing we get to do here.
There we go.
All right, this looks good.
I believe we're gonna play
ourselves a correct thing.
We'll let this thing play out.